Good afternoon.
Welcome to Keeping Users Connected
with the Instant Message Framework.
My name is Justin Wood,
and I'm going to be talking
about fostering user interaction
with iChat and your application.
So to start off,
we'll start off with a brief overview
of what we're going to cover today.
I'm going to go over
what exactly iChat is,
and then I'm going to delve
right into how you can use the
Instant Message API to use all the wealth
of information that iChat has about
users' presence in your application.
We're then going to move on
to controlling iChat using
the Apple Script API and the
scripting bridge that's available.
Then we're going to finish up with
responding to events that occur
in iChat using your application.
And to finish,
we'll open up to Q&A and hopefully
get to some of your questions.
Thank you.
So to start off,
for those of you new to the platform
or not too familiar with iChat,
well, what exactly is iChat?
A few years ago, this probably required a
little bit more explanation,
but I think nowadays it's pretty
safe to say that iChat is an instant
messaging application for OS X.
It's actually the native one
that we ship with Leopard.
It supports popular instant messaging
services such as AOL Instant Messenger,
XMPP-compliant Jabber
servers such as Google Talk,
and Bonjour to keep connected with
people on your local area network.
I'm sure you've seen lots
of screenshots of iChat,
but iChat as an application
has things like a buddy list,
supports text chat, file transfers,
audio chat,
and a very oft-demoed video chat feature.
New in Snow Leopard came things like
screen sharing and iChat theater.
Today we're at WWDC,
and you guys are probably asking, well,
that's great,
but what can I do with iChat?
Well, we're going to break this down into
four main categories of things.
First of all,
there's presence information.
iChat has a bunch of information about
people that users have either voluntarily
or have been added to their buddy list.
You can actually get at this
using our native Cocoa API,
the Instant Message Framework,
and use this in your
application to display presence.
You can also get at this
information using Apple Script and
the Scripting Bridge,
but today I'm going to focus on
the Instant Message Framework.
There's a wealth of documentation
about the latter two online.
I invite you to check that out.
We're then going to move on
to controlling iChat from your
application using Apple Script and
the Scripting Bridge.
Now what this actually means is that your
application can kick off events in iChat.
You can send text messages,
file transfers,
start video chat sessions,
even start screen sharing with other
remote users from your application.
We're going to talk about how
your application can respond
to events that occur in iChat.
And what this means is that suppose
you have an incoming file transfer.
You can wire your application up
in such a way that your application
will accept the file transfer and
then perhaps do something with
it when it's actually complete.
The last section of
things is iChat Theater.
iChat Theater actually is
a new feature in Leopard,
and it fundamentally
is taking a video chat,
allowing your application
to provide content,
video or still,
and present it side by side
in sort of a neat presentation
format with an ongoing video chat.
This will actually be the
subject of our next session,
so I invite you all to stick
around and check it out.
So without further ado,
let's talk about the
Instant Message Framework and presence.
Well, what does presence look like,
first of all?
Well, the iChat buddy list is a
pretty good place to start.
Along the left side of things,
you see the status gems,
which are used to represent availability.
You see a list of people,
people that the user has actually
added to their buddy list.
You see on the right side things
like buddy pictures and capabilities.
Do users have video cameras?
Do they have audio microphones?
Are they available for
video chats at present?
So what does a presence look
like in another application?
Let's try something else we ship,
like Address Book.
This is a card view from the
standard Address Book on your system,
and it has pretty much what you'd
expect from a contact application.
Things like their name,
company information, phone numbers,
email, that kind of stuff.
In addition, you'll notice here,
there's actually an AIM handle.
What Address Book is doing is
using this AIM handle and the
Instant Message Framework to tie
this back to a presence in iChat,
and if you look carefully,
there's a little green status gem,
the same one that you see in iChat,
right beside the user's buddy
picture in Address Book.
Mail is another good example of this.
Mail will show the online status of
any sender or addressee of a message.
You'll notice again it's the same
status gem that you see in iChat.
Well, how does Mail do this?
Well,
they've noticed that this email address
is tied to an address book card,
which in turn is tied back
to an IM handle that can be
tied to a presence in iChat.
And lastly, a different kind of client.
This is actually one of our own.
The menu extra, actually,
if you look at the bottom,
has a list of handles that are available.
These are pulled from iChat using
the Instant Message Framework.
We filter out all the ones
that we're not interested in.
In this case,
we want only available people.
We show this as a short list of --
a short way to initiate text chats,
video chats, or audio chats with people.
So stepping back just a little bit,
what exactly is presence?
Well, presence is first and foremost,
as I said, the availability of
someone in the buddy list.
Represent on the left side of things,
you have your green gem
for available status,
you have a yellow gem for idle,
and you have a red gem for away.
And the lack of a gem represents
that person's offline.
There's a bunch of other things
that come along with this.
We have things like
their status messages,
their pictures, their capabilities,
things fundamental such as,
does this user support file transfer?
Do they support group chat?
Larger things such as,
is this person running Leopard
so I can screen share with them?
Lastly, we're actually going to tie
address book cards to people,
which will give your application
an easier way to call back
presences of people you might
actually be working with.
So, what does our framework provide?
Well, to start off,
we provide presence information about
the person sitting down at the machine.
That is my presence information.
This will be things like the
availability of the person.
What has the user set
their own buddy icon?
Are they actually even logged
into a service immediately?
We're going to provide presence
information about all the buddies
in that user's buddy list.
We're going to provide
presence change notifications,
so we can actually let your
application know when someone
moves from available to away,
or changes their buddy picture,
so you can keep your UI up to date.
And speaking of UI,
we're actually going to provide to
you the status gems that you see
on the left side of the buddy list
for your use in your application,
as we saw here with Mail and
previously with Address Book.
So to start at the top of that list,
how do we get access to our
own presence information?
Well, as I said,
Instant Message is the framework
that you'll be looking at,
and the IAMService.h header will have
all the functionality that you need to
integrate presence into your application.
Let's look at a simple call,
one called MyStatus.
When you call this,
you're actually going to get back
a variable type of IAMPersonStatus,
which is an enumerated type of
any of the availability states,
such as available, idle, away,
and offline.
There's a couple more of these that
you'll actually see in the header,
And they're well documented there.
I invite you to check it out.
So once you have one of these things,
how do you actually get the status
image to represent a new UI?
Well,
there's another similarly simple call.
Once you have one of these statuses,
you can actually call ImageNameForStatus,
which is going to return an
NSString that you can pass off to
AppKit's NSImage API to return an
image that you can set on a button
cell that you can draw yourself.
So before moving forward,
I should probably explain a little
bit more about the innards of
IAM service and sort of how it works.
The class, as we've seen,
has a couple utility methods on
it and ways to get information
about our own presence.
However, instances of IAM service
are a little bit different.
Each instance of IAM service
represents an account type
that iChat the application,
and thus the Instant Message Framework
is capable of talking to.
These are things such as AIM, Jabber,
and Bonjour, all named services.
Each service can have attributes such as,
for example, their status.
Is this particular service logged in?
Are they logged out?
A bunch of states that you'd
imagine would be in between there.
The service is the actual
one that's going through the
address book person mapping.
So when you have your A/B person
object in your application,
you can ask a service, "Hey,
give me all the handles that
I can use for presence lookup on
this given service," using these
screen names for person call.
And conversely,
there's a people with screen name
if you have a handle that you want
to maybe map an A/B person back to.
And lastly, and most importantly,
we'll get to that, are buddies.
Buddies exists on IAM service objects.
How do I get at these IAM services?
Well,
there's two relatively simple calls.
You can just say, hey,
give me all the services that
iChat currently supports.
Or if you know what you're looking for,
you can address one
specifically with a name.
Now it looks something like this.
An important thing to mention
here is that as of Leopard,
we supported multiple
logins to any given service.
Now what this means is that you
can have two AIM accounts or
more logged into the AOElements
Instant Messenger service simultaneously.
Same for Jabber,
and Bonjour still only allows one,
because it would make
much sense otherwise.
In this example, you see here two Jabber,
two AIM, and a single Bonjour list.
And it's important to note that this
does not represent five IAM services.
This still represents three.
The buddies, the status information,
is all going to be sort of a best-case
scenario in a mix of all the buddies
and the best status of a given service.
So if one of these accounts
were logged out and you asked
for the services status,
you'd probably still get logged in,
given that one is still there.
So buddy information.
Buddy information,
once you have one of these IAM services,
is relatively easy to get at.
There's two ways to do this.
You ask for the info for a
particular screen name if you
know who you're looking for.
Or you can ask for the entire buddy
list with info for all screen names.
The information is returned to
you in the form of a dictionary,
a dictionary which contains
a variety of keys and values,
all of which are listed in the
actual header and explained there.
But they'll have things, for example,
like the person's screen name
with I am person screen name key,
their status, status key, and so forth.
So let's walk through a brief example
of how this would actually work.
So let's say we're talking about AIM,
and we're looking for an
AIM buddy in our application.
So first order of business is let's
find a reference to the AIM service.
So we ask IAM service for
the service with name AIM.
Given that reference,
we can then ask for information
about a particular screen name,
which will give us back a dictionary
if that person is in the buddy list.
From that dictionary,
we can start pulling out the
statuses that are interesting to us.
Things like, given that we know their
screen name already,
might be nice to show their status
and their status message in the UI,
and maybe a little picture on the side.
And, you know,
we can also show their first name for a
little bit of a cleaner user experience.
That's all you pretty much
need to integrate presence as
it exists in your application.
Now, iChat has this ever-evolving
or ever-changing presence
concept that people go from
available to away fairly often.
So your application needs
to keep up with this.
And to do that,
we have presence change notifications.
These are given to you with a
custom NS Notification Center.
For those of you unfamiliar
with NS Notification Center,
this is a standard
foundation-level object that,
for all intents and purposes,
you can register with to say, hey,
I want to know about certain
events or notifications occurring.
Example ones are
IAM Service Status Change Notification,
where you can imagine this will
let you know when a service,
say AIM or Jabber,
moves from logged in to logged out.
If you want to know when someone changes
their status from available to away,
you can register for the
IAM Person Status Change Notification,
which will let you
know when that happens.
Similarly,
if your application shows buddy UI,
such as their picture,
you can register for the
IAM Person Info Change Notification,
which will let you know when any
of the vast number of presence
keys out there actually change.
Each of these notifications comes
with a bit of context information,
and this actually is delivered
by way of the user info.
This dictionary contains the same
keys that you saw on the previous
slide to look up buddy information,
so it should be pretty
straightforward to see there.
So let's look through a sequence
of events that an application
might do to support these things.
First of all,
we need to get our application to
register for these notification changes,
which would look something like this.
We ask the IAM service for
its notification center,
add ourself in this case
as an observer to the
IAM Person Status Change notification.
And notice that we're having it call us
back on the Person Status Change method.
Next step, we need to get notified.
And to do that, well,
someone needs to change their status,
and on top of that,
we need to actually create the method
to handle the net status change.
So that would look something like this.
Here we have person status changed,
and the first order of
business is to pull the user
info dictionary out of there.
We need to know whose
status actually changed,
so we're going to ask that dictionary,
hey, I need the value for the
IAM person screen name key.
So that's immediately going to tell
us who we're talking about here.
And given this is a status change,
we're probably interested
in their new status.
So in turn, we can pull the new status
right out of that dictionary.
For the purposes of this example,
we're actually just logging this out.
But as you can imagine,
your application will put in
the glue code that it needs
here to update its views,
models, controllers,
do all the bookkeeping
that you need to do.
After that, well, that's pretty much it.
You're fully tied into iChat.
You'll receive notifications for any
time any presence changes in the UI.
So side by side,
your application will keep up
to the goings-on of things.
There's one important
detail here to note,
is that presence will be pushed
to you as soon as you register
with this notification center.
Now simply put,
this means if in my previous example,
I was interested in the
IAM Person Status Change notifications.
As soon as I register for these,
I am immediately going to be pushed
a presence change notification
for everybody that iChat has,
with their current status.
So what this means is that your
application doesn't actually need to
ask for the initial status of things.
You don't need to do that startup
and build your initial map of,
you know, the state of the world.
You just simply need to
register for your notifications,
and then the same code that does
your UI update and your model
update will actually build your
sort of initial state of iChat.
And this will work whether iChat
is currently running or not.
If it's running, you'll expect a bunch of
these things to come in.
If it's not, then, well,
when iChat pops up,
your application will be ready to go.
So let's walk through
a brief demo of this.
I'm going to show you some sample
code that's actually available online,
and I'm going to walk you through
the glue code that basically ties
IAM service to our simple data model.
This application is simply
looking through the address book,
finding every A/B person,
and just trying to tie
a presence to them.
So let's take a look.
So here online, I'm going to open up
the AB Presence project,
and I'll give you a little
overview of how this thing works.
If we look at the standard main menu nib,
is the interface builder here.
This is just a simple window that's
going to have a list with two columns.
There's going to be some text
and an image along the side here.
In the actual Nib,
we have two objects declared.
We have a Service Watcher and
we have a People Data Source.
The Service Watcher is going to
be the class that actually ties
IAM service to the data source.
So, let's start with Service Watcher.
Pretty straightforward class, no I of Rs,
and it just has two simple accessors,
Start and Stop Monitoring IAM Service.
When it loads up from Nib,
it's just going to tell
itself to start monitoring.
And the monitoring, as we saw previously,
is very straightforward.
We pull the
IAM Services NS Notification Center,
and we start adding ourselves
for interesting notifications.
In this case,
since we're going to be looking for both
presence changes and status changes,
we register for the
IAM Person Status Change Notification
here,
and the IAM Person Info
Notification changed here.
This notification at the top is actually
the one I was talking about for the
IAM Service Status Change Notifications,
but this application doesn't
need to do anything with them.
So, let's take a brief look at these.
As I said,
the service status change notification,
we're not really doing anything with,
but the person status change
notification is where everything happens.
What we're going to do is
pull the service that this
notification is talking about.
So when someone on, say,
our aim buddy list has gone
from available to away,
we're going to pull the service to figure
out the service we're talking about.
I'm going to pull the user info out,
I'm going to pull the screen name out,
and then I'm going to use that service
that I grabbed to find all the address
book people that could potentially
be associated with the screen name.
My data source, as I mentioned,
is a list of people in the address book.
So I'm then actually going to list
through all the address book people
that could be affected and post a
little internal notification-- this is
how one is talking to the other-- of,
hey, these people, all these address book
people might have changed.
You should probably reassess
your state of affairs.
So moving on to the People Data Source.
If we look at this guy,
it's pretty straightforward as well.
He has two parallel arrays.
Not exactly the most
efficient way to go about it,
but it gets the job done.
We have a list of A/B people
in our address book,
and we're gonna have a parallel
array of IAM person statuses.
These will just be NS values that
map back to the enumerated type
that I talked about previously.
We also have a reference to the table.
So, if we look at the initial
startup of this thing,
or...
Here.
The general sort of brute force way to
go about rebuilding status information
for all your buddies here is,
first of all,
clear out this parallel array,
go through all the people
in our address book list,
And this is a little bit confusing here,
so I'm going to walk through
it a little bit slowly.
We're going to start with a--
What we're trying to do here is to find
the best status for all the available
handles for this given A/B person.
A person can just have one,
or they can have as many
as you have assigned.
So we're going to start with
offline as our best status.
We're going to iterate through all the
services that are available to iChat.
We're going to ask all those services,
hey, what are the screen
names that you support?
So if someone just has an AIM handle,
this is going to iterate
through a few times.
But it's only going to find one
AIM handle and do all this code for that.
It'll ignore Jabber and Bonjour,
for example.
So once we have these screen names,
we're going to iterate through
the screen names and ask that
service for all the information
it has about that screen name.
That'll give us back a dictionary
that we're going to then
pull the status right out of.
If we have a status,
we're just going to cast
it to an IAM person status,
and then compare them.
This is another utility method
you'll see in IAMService.h.
It's just a simple comparator to say,
is available better than away,
because they're not necessarily ordered
as you might expect in the header.
If it's a better status,
we'll remember this and move along.
Once we're done with a given person,
we note the best status that we found
and tell the table to reload its data.
Fairly straightforward.
So that notification that the
service watcher previously would post
will just kick off a reload table,
or a reload AB people
for this data source,
which will just go back through and note,
basically note changes that's
happened to people and update the UI.
So let's see this thing working.
iChat.
I run this,
and you can see the application
just popped up immediately.
I do have iChat running
in the background.
And it showed here, hey, this guy's idle,
this guy's away.
And this machine hasn't been
touched for a little while,
so I'll just move the mouse.
And look,
Jane McDouglas has now become available.
And that's it for this presentation.
So, if I can go back to slides.
So in summary,
instant message is the way to
get presence in your application.
It's a very simple Cocoa API,
and it's a very simple usage pattern.
All you have to do is register
for presence changes and handle
the changes when they come in.
There's no need to
pull for initial state.
That's it.
Very small amount of code
that you'll need to write.
Going back to what Bertrand said in
the State of the Union on Monday,
if you happen to be there,
this is Snow Leopard,
and we really are looking
for your feedback.
So I invite you all to
check out our sample code,
look through the instant
message documentation,
and think about,
can I use this in my application?
Do you use AB People anywhere
in your app?
Does your application revolve
around dealing with people?
Is it a contact managing application?
That sort of thing.
If the answer is yes to any of those,
then chances are you're
a pretty good candidate.
So check out the source code,
register for the status
change in your application,
and see if you can get to the point
where you have a green gem showing up
somewhere useful in your UI to the user,
maybe next to their name, their picture,
as you saw in Mail or Address Book.
We have a lab tomorrow morning,
bright and early, 9:00 AM.
So I invite you all to come there
and let us know how it went.
I'll be there myself,
and fellow iChat guys will be
there looking forward to it
and looking forward to helping
you out get this thing working.
And with that, I'm actually going to
introduce the next person.
Matthew Jarjoura will be talking about
controlling iChat using Apple Scripts
and the Scripting Bridge API.
Thank you.
Thank you, Justin.
Hi, I'm Matt Jarjoura,
and I am an engineer on the iChat team.
And today I'm going to be
talking to you about controlling
iChat using Apple Script and
the Scripting Bridge Framework.
So I'm going to be talking a little
bit about what is Apple Script,
and then I'm going to give you
some examples of what you can
do with Apple Script in iChat,
and then I'm going to talk to
you a little bit about a new
framework we added in Leopard,
the Scripting Bridge Framework.
So for those of you new to the
platform or just unfamiliar
with Apple Script in general,
you may be wondering what
exactly Apple Script is.
How does this thing work?
AppleScript is actually defined
as an English-like language.
For instance, here it says,
"Tell application iChat,
"Display dialogue,
hello," which then gets
converted into an Apple event,
which is this message that then
gets passed on to an application,
such as iChat in this case,
is its dialogue message.
So with AppleScript,
you can write shell scripts
just like you can with Perl,
Python, Ruby.
There's a command line utility
OSA script that lets you run these tools.
And you can control a specific
application with AppleScript.
And you can also respond to events.
Say, for instance,
you get a mail message from a group list,
and you want to process
this with more than just,
say,
maybe make a sound or move to a folder,
you can attach an AppleScript to that.
Okay,
but today we're here for iChat and what
you can do with iChat and Apple Script.
So the first thing is you need
to set up your Apple Script code.
And of course, with any language,
you need to set up your block.
And the first thing is
tell application iChat.
And anything inside of here, then,
you can use to control iChat.
So let's go ahead and
get to our first example,
starting a new text chat.
Okay, so to start a new text chat,
you need to create a
new text chat object.
And to do this,
I've highlighted a line of code here,
"Make new text chat with properties."
And what this is going to do is this is
going to create a new text chat object,
and then we're going to fill it
with the properties participants,
which is basically I'm
building a dictionary here,
so participants is the key.
And then I'm filling it with a
signed-on buddy smarter child.
So then I'm passing the participants
into the properties that's
creating the new text chat,
and then I'm setting the result
of that to the text chat object.
So once you do that,
iChat will open up the
window to that person,
and then you can begin
sending actions to it.
Say, for instance,
send hello to the text chat.
Okay,
how about starting an audio conference?
Same thing as before,
only this time make new audio chat.
Again, you pass in the participants,
in this case, Jane McDouglas.
She's a signed-on buddy.
And then when you set the result
of this to my audio conference,
now the difference is actually
as soon as you set this,
you're actually going to initiate an
audio invitation to Jane McDouglas.
So just be aware if you're
running through and testing it
out and all of a sudden Jane's
talking to you out of the blue.
Just be aware.
Okay,
how about a multi-way video conference?
iChat.
Same thing here,
make new video chat with properties.
Only this time I wanted to
highlight here the participants.
And notice this time now we're
actually having multiple participants.
Here we have Buddy, Jay McDouglas,
Mark Hammond, Kelly Adams here.
So when we pass them in,
you're actually going to be passing
in an array of participants that will
go into your new video chat object.
And again,
just like the audio conference,
as soon as you set your video conference,
or my video conference there,
It will begin and all three
people will be invited.
Okay, how about joining a chat room?
Now this one's a little different
because here you actually need
to be very specific about the
service you want to connect to,
because each service that
you're on could have a different
conference that you're joining.
You know, say Google Chat is not going
to have the same conferences
that AIM is going to have.
And unlike the Instant Messaging
Framework where you're
specific with just AIM Jabber,
you're actually going to go and
get the specific service itself.
So here in this example,
I'm saying the first service
whose service type is AIM.
All this is really saying is
of all the services that I'm
connected to that are AIM,
get me the first at
index zero of this array.
And then set the result
of that to the service.
And then we can use it here,
just like before,
make new text chat with properties.
I'm going to say join name iChat WWDC,
and then set the service there.
Now, with iChat,
it's not actually going to
bring up a window until you're
officially in the channel,
so it may take one or two seconds
before the window pops up.
But as soon as the window's up,
then you can begin sending
actions to it again here.
Send hello room to WWDC room.
So where do you go from here?
Of course,
these are just a couple examples
that I wanted to show you.
But the cool thing about
Apple Script is it's the
Script Editor program that you see here.
It's installed on
everyone's copy of Mac OS X.
So you can just bring it up.
It's in your
Applications/AppleScript folder.
And when you go to Script Editor,
you can bring up an
application's dictionary.
Essentially, this is its API.
So here,
if you pull up iChat's dictionary,
you can see things like everything that
you can do with it using Apple Script.
Log in, log out, take a snapshot,
and then the same objects
that I was creating before.
A text chat, audio chat, video chat, etc.
So go ahead and check this out.
There's also documentation you can view.
It'll give you,
basically explain what you need to
do to pass what properties you need,
and things like that.
Okay, now let's move on to the
scripting bridge framework.
So how does the scripting
bridge framework play into this?
So previous to Leopard,
if you wanted to do
anything with AppleScript,
you actually had to instantiate
an NSAppleScript object.
Some of you may be familiar with this.
And pass in a small
snippet of code into this,
which then went through
AppleScript to actually process this.
When Leopard, they added this scripting
bridge framework,
which basically bypasses this now.
So it itself is directly
going to Apple Events,
so you don't have the overhead
of AppleScript anymore.
So the great thing about
ScriptingBridge is actually it's
built on top of Objective-C,
so you can control your application,
control iChat with Objective-C.
And since Leopard now that
other scripting languages
have first-party supports,
Ruby, Python, Perl,
you can also use those to
control an application as well.
And all the interfaces
are generated dynamically,
so all commands, except handlers,
which we'll get to later,
are made available to you.
And this works with any
scriptable application,
Mail, iCal, iTunes, even yours.
So where to start with the
scripting bridge framework?
Well, if you run this command
line utility here,
you don't even have to worry
about copying that down.
It's listed on developer.apple.com.
And you can type in man sdp.
It'll walk you through.
But the idea is by running this
command line statement here,
you'll actually be generating
yourself a header file,
which will be the same content
that you saw in the dictionary
in the scripting editor.
So this will allow you to see it in,
basically, hopefully,
your favorite format, Objective-C.
But the thing is,
there's no accompanying .m file,
so to actually use the scripting bridge,
you're going to be doing
this all on runtime.
And here we have the class method
application with bundle identifier,
and you pass in the bundle identifier,
com.apple.ichat,
and then it will generate the
class and instantiate it iChat app.
And then iChat app, you can, say,
pass an Objective-C 2.0
property status message.
And as soon as you set this,
it should be reflected in iChat.
Pretty straightforward, I think.
OK,
so let's walk on to some examples now.
The first one, sending a file.
So to send a file, you want to create an
NSURL reference of your file,
in this case,
Here I'm doing Grand Canyon,
which is basically just
a folder of pictures.
And in this folder, basically,
I'm going to-- and then
I need to get my buddy.
So I'm going and getting a
buddy that's already signed in,
in this case, Jane McDouglas.
So I'm going to iChat app,
getting the list of buddies,
and then saying, OK, well,
which one's signed in?
Jay McDouglas.
And then I'm going to go ahead and pass
the file URL to iChat with the buddy.
And this way, iChat will take the file
URL and send her the file.
Okay, how about starting a new chat?
Now,
because this is generated dynamically,
you're actually going to have to go
back to the scripting bridge and say,
I actually want an Objective-C class
for this scripting class,
TextChat.
And once you have this class,
then you can actually create your object.
So, you take your dictionary,
just as we did before,
and you pass in Smarter Child as
assigned in Buddy to the participants,
and then you pass that into
your new TextChat object.
And unlike AppleScript here,
you actually have to tell
iChat that you want to add this
to its list of text objects.
So, as soon as you do that,
then the window will open up,
and then you can begin sending
messages to Smarter Child.
Hey, how about joining a chat room?
Just like before,
you need to actually get the service
of the chat room you want to sign into.
Here in this example, I'm just getting,
of all the services that I'm on,
I'm just getting the last one.
And then here,
I'm passing this into the dictionary.
So I'm saying, with this service and
this chat room name,
iChat WWDC.
And then basically I'm adding the
object to its list of text chats,
and then again, wait one or two seconds,
hopefully no more than that,
and then the chat window should open up.
Okay.
Let me go ahead and walk you
through a little demo here.
Okay,
so I'm actually using Ruby Cocoa here.
Some of you may be familiar with this.
But, so what I have right now is just a
simple little wrapper around Xcode build.
What I wanted to do is come up with
a little build script that I can use
to just try to cut down on the amount
of repetition that I'm doing here.
So I basically collapsed it up.
It's not really,
it's just basically a simple
wrapper on Xcode build.
But the most important part
I wanted to show you here was that
I've created my builder object.
And that I basically executed
the build for a debug build
phase and then a result,
I mean a release build here.
And then basically each time I'm
printing to the command line,
here's my status.
And then I'm printing
to the command line.
So if it's not successful, then fail.
Otherwise,
print out that it was successful.
So here we can say, Builder Step 1,
and run that, and then it'll go ahead
and just compile the app.
If you caught that,
it actually said build a successful
Well, we want to make this a
little bit more interesting.
Of course, you're here for iChat.
So what I did is I went back and I said
it would be really cool if I could
have a status posted in a chat room.
So if everyone that's working on my
team could sit in the chat room and
actually see the result of this build.
So what I did here is I went back
and added Ruby Cocoa to this project.
So in require OSX slash
Cocoa and then include OSX.
This basically brings
Ruby Cocoa into the project.
And now I'm going to require
the framework scripting bridge.
So all I did here is I added another
simple class which just wraps around,
again,
the scripting bridge APIs and iChat
APIs to try to make it even easier
to basically set up a little bot.
And again, here you see dictionary
with objects and keys.
And I'm passing in just the first
service that I'm signed on to.
And then passing it in a room
that when I create my bot,
I'm basically assigning
the room at that point.
And then I'm adding it
to iChat's text chats.
And then I just created a simple method
to send message to this chat room.
OK.
So here we are again at the code
that you saw in the previous example.
Only this time now,
I've added a global bot object,
and then I've replaced each of
my print to the command line.
But now this time,
I'm actually going to be sending
the status to a chat room.
Okay, so let's see here.
I am in the chat room now.
I'm going to go ahead
and run this example.
Back to the slides.
Okay, so there's actually online
documentation that can tell you
how to integrate just dragging in
a .application file into Xcode.
You can check that out.
That's pretty cool.
So you don't have to type in the command
line every time you want a header file.
But it's easy enough.
You can add the framework to any
of your applications and begin
using the scripting bridge today.
And if you're curious,
there's another session.
Actually, it's today at 5, 5.25,
Cocoa Development Using Scripting,
if you're interested in
more information about this.
Okay, so we move on to the next part now,
which is actually responding to events.
And unfortunately,
this only applies to AppleScript.
But I wanted to walk you through
kind of what exactly that means,
responding to events.
Well, if you go to the Alerts
Pref pane in iChat,
you can go and set up an event for any
number of the events that we have here.
When I log in, when I log out,
say a buddy becomes available,
message received in this case,
and you can attach an
AppleScript handler to that event.
So whenever that event occurs,
basically what iChat will do is
go off and fire that handler.
And of course, we provide a handler for
every one of these events.
AVChat started,
invitation to share my screen,
incoming file transfer,
and we're going to pass all
the relevant objects to that
method so that you can use it.
Say, for instance, you get a message,
you actually probably want to
have the message there for you.
So we'll hand that off to the handler.
And here's just a simple example.
Instead of saying tell application,
this time you're actually going to
say using terms from application.
And then you're going to have
inside of it onMessageReceived.
And this is the same thing that you would
think of like a method onMessageReceived.
And then the variables, the text,
the buddy, the chat.
And the little bits,
the from here and the for,
these are actually just required bits.
It makes it a little easier to read,
of course, but to get these bits,
to make sure you're putting
the right ones in there,
you can go back and check
the iChat dictionary.
It'll tell you what
you need to have there.
And of course,
inside of this block of code,
then it's set buddy name to
get the name of the buddy,
then display dialog.
Pretty straightforward there.
Okay, so I'm going to walk
you through more demo.
So I thought, wouldn't it be really cool
if I could do the same thing,
starting to build,
but if I could do it from inside
the chat room that I'm in right now?
So I added a third step here.
And again, now I thought,
what would be the best
way to approach this?
And I said, well,
I'm going to go ahead and
use this mongrel HTTP server.
And some of you who have used Ruby on
Rails might be familiar with this.
It's just a simple little HTTP server.
So I've added this into my project.
And the only thing I've added here is
now every time I get a URL to start,
I'm going to go ahead
and process this method.
So all I've done is moved the same
code that was in the previous example
into this block here that allows me
to run every time I get a URL start.
So I can actually keep this running and
then start the build multiple times.
But without having to worry about
adding a queue or anything like that,
just for simplicity's sake today,
basically I just set up
a little flag that says,
if I'm already building,
go ahead and get out.
But certainly, if you wanted this a
little bit more robust,
you'd probably want to
have a queue that says,
all right,
I'm going to build up a queue every
time someone makes a start request.
Okay, so then you're going to actually
hook up the other part of this,
the message received part of it.
This is the part that actually
your users are going to have to do.
They will attach this little bit of code.
So on Chat Room Received, again,
the message, the buddy, the chat,
and then so I'm going to test to
say if the message is Start Build,
I'm going to fire off curl,
run this shell script curl,
basically starting the build.
So then I'm going to go to iChat now.
And I'm going to go to
Chatroom Message Received,
and then I'm going to choose a script.
Okay,
so now whenever I receive a message,
it's actually going to go to this script.
Let's see here.
Start.
Oh, I'm going to run this, actually.
All right, so again,
it brings it back here.
And then start build.
Back to the slides.
All right.
So in summary, basically we have this
Instant Message Framework again,
so if you want to incorporate
status in your application,
and just like address book or mail,
if you think your application
fits this kind of application,
then we have this
Instant Message Framework
to show you status perfect.
And if you want to add notifications
to your application in Apple Script,
for instance-- or you can use
Apple Script in this case.
And if you have any more feedback
from today or any questions,
Matt Drance,
he's our sharing technologies evangelist.
You can send him an email.
Again,
you can check out the attendee site.
I believe that there's sample code for
this session posted on there for today.
And we certainly encourage all
of you to join our mailing list,
iChat Dev.
There's engineers from Apple on
there who can help you if you
have any questions or concerns.
And you might want to stick around.
iChat Theater we're
going to talk about next.
And there's an iChat lab
tomorrow morning at 9 a.m.
All of us will be there to
answer any questions again that
you might have or comments,
take any feedback.
And then on Friday morning,
there's actually, if you're interested in
more scripting bridge,
Apple Script Talks,
there is an application
scripting automation lab.